#Continuity and Change

### Industrial Revolution
Before the Industrial Revolution, America focused more on the acquisition of land rather than the protection and preservation United States soil,  as shown through the Louisiana and Gadsden Purchases. However, the Industrial Revolution introduced new environmental issues, including pollution and the contamination of many habitats and bodies of water. From the mid-1800s and onwards, American government introduced environmental protection acts and national parks like Yellowstone and the Clean Water Act of 1963 to protect our resources and save the environments polluted by industry and innovation. As America saw its country beginning to deteriorate environmentally, it introduced acts to preserve and protect our nation's land.

### Freedom

The nation was founded upon the ideas of freedom and liberty from the British crown, which then evolved to freedom from any coercing power. However, these ideals were only extended to the white ruling class of citizens in the United States at first, as outlined in the Declaration of Independence. After the nation settled over a period of a century, the country could finally look inwards about itself, rather than conquering foreign lands, and this is when many groups of people, like women and African Americans, realized they should be so much more in society for what they have done. Civil rights movements lead by Martin Luther King took place and women began leaving the domestic sphere and joined the workforce. Much of this could only happen after the nation settled and therefore it took longer than it should’ve with all the turmoil going on in the world at the time.

### Westward Expansion

During the American Revolution, the expansion of the west was significant to how the environment and geography changed. In the late 1700’s, land was still being fought over by the French, British, Spanish, and Natives. The territory that was fought over was mainly won by the British and the Natives were forced out like in the Proclamation Line of 1763 after the Seven Years War. The problems that were introduced with the Westward Expansion were those such as the Treaty of Greenville where the boundary lines of Native American lands were crossed and opened to European-American settlers and it created conflict between the immigrants and natives. This continues throughout all of the periods and is still an issue in modern times. 
