# Complexity

### Regarding Slavery

The period of slavery in the 1800s by America is similar to the imperialism period that overtook Europe during 1870 to 1970. In both circumstances, slavery was instituted into colonies or states under white rule. In Europe, the implementation of the British Raj and the British East India Company as well as the Scramble for Africa and the Berlin Conference allowed for Britain to establish slavery and free labor over these colonies. A similar approach happened in America, in which the Confederacy implemented slavery and segregation over Southern states, limiting the rights of the “other,” meaning people not of European descent. To add, the ideas of Social Darwinism and “White Man’s Burden” to educate races inferior to whites by colonizing societies was implemented in America as they constructed their slavery system. Social Darwinism was a large part in mistreatment of black Americans, as whites felt they were the superior race and therefore had more rights than colored people. Both countries introduced slavery and racism into their societies. 

### Regarding Industrial Revolution

The Industrial Revolution that occured in the United States had attributes like the one that occurred starting in Britain and spreading through Western Europe. In Britain, the first signs of the revolution was the mechanizing of the textile industry with inventions like the Water Frame. This allowed for much faster production of textiles and gave Britain an edge over other countries’ competition. It soon spread even as Britain tried to keep secret how its machines were made. The mechanization of industry also occured in the United States in a similar fashion as capitalists wanted to make more money without increasing their costs of labor. This lead to first the creation of smaller factory systems like the Lowell Mills, but later on, large conglomerates that had full horizontal integration for a certain commodity. This was a much more dominant theme in the United States compared to Europe where it did not proliferate with capitalistic urge.

### Regarding the Gold Rush

Comparatively, during the Gold Rush, many Americans moved west in search of riches and land. In both time periods, Americans were settling further west taking over native land and using their resources. Economically and Geographically America thrived as a country and the natives and environment paid for it. The American Revolution and the Gold Rush brought many immigrants to America and they started to settle west reaching the Coast of California by the end of the Gold Rush.

### Regarding Immigration

There were two “Great Migration(s)” which were very different from each other in terms of the people who arrived during the two periods, however, they have many similarities that extend far beyond the race/religion of those coming to America.  The first of the two is the Puritans coming to the “New World” in the early 1600s.  Facing religious persecution in England, they sought not necessarily new land, but the opportunity to express themselves freely under their very strict religious code.  These Puritans were not necessarily impoverished, in fact, many of them actually were doing quite decently economically, however, the religious opportunity was too great to pass up, and thus they came over in great numbers to America.  The second  was of African Americans from the south to the north in the early 1900s.  Having been recently freed from slavery, they still lacked many of the same rights that white Americans had, and faced discrimination and segregation in the south.  Things like the Jim Crow Laws among other southern laws legally limited and restricted the rights of blacks.  They then began to migrate to the north where economic and political opportunity was much greater. Thus, the similarities between the two are more than the people who migrated, but the reasons.  Both migrations were of people who faced forms of persecution where they were located, and sought a better life for themselves and their families.  The idea of moving for the sake of a better life is one that  has defined the American Dream for centuries and will continue to do so into the foreseeable future.

